---

title: "Resources"
tagline: Relevant resources in and around Oxford
description:
permalink: /resources/
type: page
collection: resources
---

---

Here are links to resources relating to open and reproducible research
in and around Oxford. Feel free to <a href="{{ '/get-involved' |
relative_url }}">get in touch</a> to get a resource listed here!

[Codebar Oxford](https://codebar.io/){:target="_blank"} offers free
programming workshops, with the goal to make the tech community more
diverse.

[Data Readiness and
FAIRness](https://datareadiness.eng.ox.ac.uk/){:target="_blank"} is a
research group based at the Department of Engineering Science, which
carries out research, development, and consultancy on data
transparency, reproducibility, and scholarly publishing, based on the
[FAIR Data
Principles](https://www.go-fair.org/fair-principles){:target="_blank"},
a set of guiding principles to make data Findable, Accessible,
Interoperable and Reusable. The group develops and maintains
[FAIRsharing](https://fairsharing.org/){:target="_blank"}, an
educational resource on data and metadata standards (for sharing and
reporting), inter-related to repositories, databases, knowledge bases,
and data policies (from funders, journal publishers) from all
disciplines.

[EQUATOR Network](https://www.equator-network.org/){:target="_blank"} (Enhancing the QUAlity and Transparency Of health Research) is an international initiative based in Oxford that seeks to improve the reliability and value of published health research literature by promoting transparent and accurate reporting and wider use of robust reporting guidelines.

[IT Learning Center](https://skills.it.ox.ac.uk/){:target="_blank"} provides many [Digital Skills courses](https://skills.it.ox.ac.uk/whats-on#/){:target="_blank"} for staffs and students of Oxford.

[NC3Rs](https://www.nc3rs.org.uk/){:target="_blank"} is a UK-based scientific organisation with an Oxford hub dedicated to replacing, refining and reducing the use of animals in research and testing. They provide courses and [resources](https://www.nc3rs.org.uk/experimental-design){:target="_blank"} to increase the reliability of experimental designs.

[Open Access Oxford](http://openaccess.ox.ac.uk){:target="_blank"}
provides useful resources on open access publishing at Oxford,
including the [Oxford Open Scholarship Case
Studies](http://openaccess.ox.ac.uk/2019/07/22/open-scholarship-at-oxford-case-studies/){:target="_blank"},
which showcase related ongoing work across the University.

The [Oxford local
group](https://www.ndorms.ox.ac.uk/csm/royal-statistical-society-oxford-local-group){:target="_blank"}
of the [Royal Statistical
Society](https://www.rss.org.uk/){:target="_blank"} runs an annual
programme of talks and lectures on statistical topics, open to
academics and non-academics with an interest in statistics.

[Oxford Research Software Engineering
(OxRSE)](https://www.rse.ox.ac.uk/){:target="_blank"} enables
academics from the University of Oxford to work with professional
software engineers. They offer professional support for large and
small projects but also free training and regular 30min bookable
software surgeries.

[R user group Oxford](https://r-oxford.github.io/){:target="_blank"}
hosts regular events aimed at users of R.

[Research Data Oxford](http://researchdata.ox.ac.uk){:target="_blank"}
provides the official University policy regarding research data
management, including helpful information about research data policy.

[Research
Support](https://researchsupport.admin.ox.ac.uk/){:target="_blank"}
outlines a set of
[principles](https://researchsupport.admin.ox.ac.uk/information/principles){:target="_blank"}
to promote the responsible use of research metrics at Oxford, in line
with the University's support for
[DORA](https://sfdora.org/){:target="_blank"}, the San Francisco
Declaration on Research Assessment.

[Research Support](https://researchsupport.admin.ox.ac.uk/){:target="_blank"} provides an [Ethics and Integrity online course](https://researchsupport.admin.ox.ac.uk/support/training/ethics#collapse409401){:target="_blank"} designed to support researchers from all disciplines. The core course outlines how researchers can meet their responsibilities, setting out the key principles and practices of good research conduct through the entire lifecycle of a research project. Specialist supplementary modules cover research involving human participants, research involving animals, intellectual property, conflicts of interest, and export controls.

[UKRN Open Research
Primers](https://www.ukrn.org/primers/){:target="_blank"} are designed
to give brief, practical introductions to making your research more
transparent, robust, and accessible.
